# Detection-of-Grammar-Using-Chomsky-Hierarchy
The grammar classification is important to choose the type of machine so that we can solve the given expressions very easily by using that machine. In this project we have successfully created one webpage GUI which is able to detect the type of grammar by using the Chomsky Hierarchy. This project is capable to detect the type 0, type 1, type 2, type 3 grammars very easily and it also provides the name of that type of grammar.

# Chomsky-Hierarchy
According to Chomsky, there are four types of grammars − Type 0, Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3.	 

| Grammar Type  | Grammar Accepted         | Automaton                |
| ------------- |:------------------------:| ------------------------:|
| Type 0        | Unrestricted grammar     | Turing Machine           |
| Type 1        | Context-sensitive grammar| Linear-bounded automaton |
| Type 2        | Context-free grammar     | Pushdown automaton       |
| Type 3        | Regular grammar          | Finite state automaton   |

### Type 3 - Regular Languages 
As we have discussed, a regular language is one which can be represented by a regular grammar, described using a regular expression, or accepted using an NFA or a DFA. 

### Type 2 - Context-Free Languages 
A Context-Free Grammar (CFG) is one whose production rules are of the form: 
The productions must be in the form A → γ
where A ∈ N (Non terminal)
and γ ∈ (T ∪ N)* (String of terminals and non-terminals).

### Type 1 - Context-sensitive grammar
The productions must be in the form
α A β → α γ β
where A ∈ N (Non-terminal)
and α, β, γ ∈ (T ∪ N)* (Strings of terminals and non-terminals)
The strings α and β may be empty, but γ must be non-empty.
The rule S → ε is allowed if S does not appear on the right side of any rule. The languages generated by these grammars are recognized by a linear bounded automaton.

### Type 0 - Unrestricted grammar
The productions have no restrictions. They are any phase structure grammar including all formal grammars.
They generate the languages that are recognized by a Turing machine.
The productions can be in the form of α → β where α is a string of terminals and nonterminals with at least one non-terminal and α cannot be null. β is a string of terminals and non-terminals.
